Supported file formats documentation reworked (#3639)
WeblateOrg/weblate: docs/formats.rst

.. [#m] See :ref:`bimono`
.. [#p] Plurals are necessary to properly localize strings with variable count.

> .. [#n] Comments can be used to pass additional info about string to translate.

Author: About ? string to translate.
what, the?

Reviewer: the

> .. [#n] Comments can be used to pass additional info about string to translate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. [#n] Comments can be used to pass additional info about the string to translate.
```

.. [#c] Context is used to differentiate identical strings used in different scopes (for example `Sun` can be used as an abbreviated name of the day "Sunday" or as the name of our closest star).
.. [#l] Location of a string in source code might help proficient translators figure out how the string is used.
.. [#a] Additional states supported by the file format in addition to "Not translated" and "Translated".
.. [#x] XML comment placed before the ``<string>`` element, parsed as a developer comment.
.. [#f] See :ref:`custom-checks`
.. [#po] The gettext type comments are used as flags.

> .. [#xl] The flags are extracted from the non-standard attibute ``weblate-flags`` for all XML based formats. Additionally ``max-length:N`` is supported through the ``maxwidth`` attribute as defined in the XLIFF standard, see :ref:`xliff-flags`.

Author: attributes?

Reviewer 2: Yes, XML attributes, see http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html#maxwidth for specs.

> .. [#xl] The flags are extracted from the non-standard attibute ``weblate-flags`` for all XML based formats. Additionally ``max-length:N`` is supported through the ``maxwidth`` attribute as defined in the XLIFF standard, see :ref:`xliff-flags`.

Author: ```suggestion
.. [#xl] The flags are extracted from the non-standard attibute ``weblate-flags`` for all XML based formats. Additionally ``max-length:N`` is supported through the ``maxwidth`` [attribute](http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html#maxwidth) as defined in the XLIFF standard, see :ref:`xliff-flags`.
```

> .. [#xl] The flags are extracted from the non-standard attibute ``weblate-flags`` for all XML based formats. Additionally ``max-length:N`` is supported through the ``maxwidth`` [attribute](http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html#maxwidth) as defined in the XLIFF standard, see :ref:`xliff-flags`.

Author: It is possible https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/intersphinx.html is a better idea for this link

Reviewer 2: Intersphinx works only between Sphinx documentations, what http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html definitely is not.

Reviewer: no and resolved

    pair: XLIFF; file format

XML-based format created to standardize translation files, but in the end it
is one of `many standards <https://xkcd.com/927/>`_, in this area.

> XLIFF is usually used as bilingual, but Weblate supports it as monolingual as well.

Author: ```suggestion
[XLIFF](http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/xliff-core/xliff-core.html) is usually used as bilingual, but Weblate supports it as monolingual as well.
```

Translation states
+++++++++++++++++++

.. versionchanged:: 3.3

   Weblate ignored the state attribute prior to the 3.3 release.

The ``state`` attribute in the file is partially processed and mapped to the
"Needs edit" state in Weblate (the following states are used to flag the string as
needing edit if there is a target present: ``new``, ``needs-translation``,
``needs-adaptation``, ``needs-l10n``). Should the ``state`` attribute be
missing, a string is considered translated as soon as a ``<target>`` element
exists.

If the translation string has ``approved="yes"``, it will also be imported into Weblate
as "Approved", anything else will be imported as "Waiting for review" (which matches the
XLIFF specification).

That means that when using the XLIFF format, it is strongly recommended to turn on the
Weblate review process, in order to see and change the approved state of strings.
See :ref:`reviews`.

> Similarly upon importing such files, you should choose

Author: ```suggestion
Similarly upon importing such files (in the upload form), you should choose
```

> XLIFF is usually used as bilingual, but Weblate supports it as monolingual as well.

Author: There is no link to the XLIFF specification.
other than maybe "attribute as defined in the XLIFF standard, see :ref:`xliff-flags`." earlier.

It should IMO be similar to:
```
.. seealso::

    `Specification of Joomla language files <https://docs.joomla.org/Specification_of_language_files>`_,
```

Reviewer 2: Good point, the specification is here: http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html

Reviewer: link added

Translation states
+++++++++++++++++++

.. versionchanged:: 3.3

   Weblate ignored the state attribute prior to the 3.3 release.

The ``state`` attribute in the file is partially processed and mapped to the

> "Needs edit" state in Weblate (the following states are used to flag the string as

Author: I feel like this has been changed to "Marked for edit" in itself not ideal, but I can't find out what "Needs edit" is now.

Reviewer 2: Not change, see https://github.com/WeblateOrg/weblate/issues/2240

needing edit if there is a target present: ``new``, ``needs-translation``,
``needs-adaptation``, ``needs-l10n``). Should the ``state`` attribute be
missing, a string is considered translated as soon as a ``<target>`` element
exists.

If the translation string has ``approved="yes"``, it will also be imported into Weblate

> as "Approved", anything else will be imported as "Waiting for review" (which matches the

Author: Is "Approved" correct?

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is how this state is currently called:

https://github.com/WeblateOrg/weblate/blob/b19d4bd0834411ec5963a0f835f48730238466e1/weblate/utils/state.py#L33

XLIFF specification).

That means that when using the XLIFF format, it is strongly recommended to turn on the
Weblate review process, in order to see and change the approved state of strings.
See :ref:`reviews`.

> Similarly upon importing such files, you should choose

Author: Where is this chosen?

Reviewer 2: I the upload form.

The ``font`` attribute is parsed for font family, size and weight, the above
example shows all of that, though only font family is required. Any whitespace
in the font family is converted to underscore, so ``Source Sans Pro`` becomes

> ``Source_Sans_Pro``, please keep that in mind when naming the font group (see

Author: s/naming/picking/ ?

Reviewer 2: Naming, when creating it in Weblate.

.. versionchanged:: 2.17

    Since Weblate 2.17 and with translate-toolkit at-least 2.2.5, i18next
    JSON files with plurals are supported as well.

`i18next <https://www.i18next.com/>`_ is an internationalization framework
written in and for JavaScript. Weblate supports its localization files with
features such as plurals.

i18next translations are monolingual, so it is recommended to specify a base file
with (what is most often the) English strings.

.. note::

   Weblate supports the i18next JSON v3 format. The v2 and v1 variants are mostly

>    compatible, with the exception of handling plurals.

Author: exception of not handling ### ~they are not handled
OR
exception of how plurals are handled ### ~they are handled differently

Reviewer 2: They are handled differently, see https://www.i18next.com/misc/json-format#i-18-next-json-v3:

> The only difference to v2 are the plural suffixes for languages with multiple plural forms.

Reviewer: already fixed this few days ago and forgot to resovle this convesation. Sorry.

.. versionadded:: 2.3

A .NET Resource (.resx) file employs a monolingual XML file format used in Microsoft

> .NET applications. It works with .resw files as well as when they use identical

Author: ```suggestion
.NET applications. It is interchangeable with .resw, when using identical
```

.. versionadded:: 2.3

> .NET Resource (.resx) file is a monolingual XML file format used in Microsoft

Author: ```suggestion
A .NET Resource (.resx) file employs a monolingual XML file format used in Microsoft
```

.. versionadded:: 2.3

> .NET Resource (.resx) file is a monolingual XML file format used in Microsoft

Author: Not sure here. Only thing I could find was "VB.NET resource"… ".NET Applications" also seems iffy.

Reviewer: @nijel

Reviewer 2: It seems to be called just "XML resource files", see https://docs.microsoft.com/cs-cz/dotnet/framework/resources/working-with-resx-files-programmatically. I've followed translate-toolkit naming here: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/translate-toolkit/en/latest/formats/resx.html

Reviewer: renamed and resolved

> .NET applications. It works with .resw files as well as when they use identical

Author: What works?

Reviewer: @nijel

Author: My question is concerning what "it" is here. I am unsure what works in the first place.

Reviewer 2: AFAIK the only real difference is extension.

Looking at https://lingohub.com/developers/resource-files/resw-resx-localization:

> These 2 file types have different extensions (.resw, .resx) but the content is the same. The only difference is in the usage of these file types in your application development process.

Author: Was just the wording that had me diddled.

CSV files can contain a simple list of source and translation. Weblate supports
the following files:

* Files with header defining fields (source, translation, location, …). This
  is the recommended approach, as it is the least error prone.
* Files with two fields—source and translation (in this order), choose
  :guilabel:`Simple CSV file` as file format
* Files with fields as defined by translate-toolkit: location, source,

>   target, id, fuzzy, context, translator_comments, developer_comments

Author: ?
```suggestion
  target, ID, fuzzy, context, translator_comments, developer_comments
```

.. warning::

   The CSV format currently automatically detects the dialect of the CSV file.
   In some cases the automatic detection might fail and you will get mixed
   results. This is especially true for CSV files with newlines in the

>    values. As a workaround it is recommended to avoid omitting quoting characters.

Author: If not, what is an "omitting quoting" character?
```suggestion
   values. As a workaround it is recommended to omit quoting characters.
```
